# M.Tech_Project
Seasonal Variability of Aerosol over Delhi NCR 

The Indian National Capital Region (NCR), Delhi, routinely experiences the highest concentrations of particulate matter in the atmosphere. Delhi NCR is located in the Indo-Gangetic belt, which is one of the densely populated areas of the globe and it is a source region for various anthropogenic aerosols such as sulfates, nitrates, black carbons, etc. Hence, Delhi NCR is a testbed for studying the characteristics of aerosols and their life cycle in order to understand their impacts on human health, weather, and climate. Hence, it is important to make measurements of both mass concentrations and number size distribution of ambient aerosols for understanding the kind of relationship that exists between aerosol mass and aerosol number concentrations in a polluted source region like Delhi NCR. This will help us to understand if the cleaner air targets for better human health can be achieved by only focusing on reducing PM mass or efforts must also be made to reduce the aerosol number concentrations as well.
In this study we report the real-time measurement of high-resolution size distribution, number concentration, and mass concentrations of ambient aerosols over an urban location within Delhi NCR. Ambient PM10, PM2.5, PM4.0, PM1.0, and Total PM mass concentrations were simultaneously measured using an environmental Dusttrak equipment. Aerosol number size distribution measurements are made using two different equipment. We used an Optical Particle Sizer (OPS) with 16 adjustable size bins for measurement of aerosol number size distribution in the size range of 0.3-10 m. Furthermore, we used a Scanning mobility particle sizer (SMPS) with 100 size bins with logarithmic spacing for measurement of aerosol number size distribution in the size range of 0.01-1 m. Results of our preliminary analysis show presence of two peaks in the diurnal pattern of both mass and number concentration of ambient aerosols. Both aerosol mass and number concentration showed minimum values in the afternoon hours. Aerosol mass and number concentrations seem to be inversely correlated with the atmospheric boundary layer height measured using a Ceilometer. The number of concentrations for each mode (nucleation, Aitken, and accumulation) varied dynamically by month and by time of the day. 
